[Music]
the story of Mary Celeste is one of the
greatest si mysteries of all time can
everyone on board a ship simply vanish
into thin air
there are plenty of theories but no
answers to this day perhaps she was
doomed from the start by not talking
about that mysterious day on December
4th 1872 when she was found floating
adrift in the Atlantic know her sorrows
go way back to another life that was
equally filled with unlucky circumstance
she didn't always go by Mary Celeste she
was originally called Amazon hmm made in
Canada in 1861 the vessel was about 100
feet long and 25 feet wide not the
biggest or greatest ship of her time but
her modest size wasn't the reason why
she had problems finding an owner from
her maiden voyage on May 18th 1861 the
Amazon already started getting a bad
reputation for possibly being a cursed
ship
she suffered nasty hull damage after
going through a fishing Dam
when she was docked in a shipyard for
repairs that shipyard caught fire and
almost burned to the ground
Amazon however remained untouched and
continued to serve as a merchant ship a
lot of her future owners would go
bankrupt each of them selling the vessel
to repay their debts she also lost her
first captain to illness during Amazon's
first journey across the Atlantic Ocean
the ship crashed into another vessel
sending the ladder to the bottom of the
English Channel
after that the unlucky ship ran aground
on her way back to Canada she was left
there abandoned and damaged beyond
repair but alas she was taken and sold
to an American mariner Amazon was
completely renovated and dubbed Mary
Celeste she bounced from owner to owner
once again finally falling into the
hands of her new and final Captain
Benjamin Spooner bricks according to
people who knew him Briggs was a good
captain and a master mariner he always
hand-picked his crew and was very
mindful of the people under his command
many even say he was pretty harsh to
those who dared violate the discipline
but he put together the best crew and
those seven men along with her captain
and his family set out on that fateful
transatlantic trip from New York to
Genoa Italy on November 7th 1872 along
with the 10 people on board the ship was
also carrying 1700 barrels of denatured
alcohol this industrial liquid is highly
flammable if not contained properly but
captain Briggs was a careful man in fact
the trip was supposed to begin two days
prior on November 5th
but Briggs had decided to wait for a
minor storm to blow through so even with
tons of flammable cargo I imagine the
captain knew what he was doing
for reasons unknown to this very day
Mary Celeste never did make it to Genoa
at some point in her journey something
terrible happened but this is where it
gets totally bizarre on December 4th
1872 about 400 miles off the coast of
Portugal the crew of another ship a
Canadian Brigantine called de gracia
noticed a vessel sailing erratically and
heading right towards them the captain
sent a signal but there was no response
as the dye gracia got closer and closer
it became apparent that there was nobody
on deck so the captain pulled up and
sent a few men over to investigate what
they found or rather didn't find would
make the hair stand on the back of your
neck there wasn't a single soul on the
ship ok well perhaps they had to abandon
but here's the thing all of their
belongings and food were still there the
precious cargo was also untouched and
there were no signs of some sort of
struggle or trouble it was if all the
people on board had simply vanished into
thin air the only things that were
missing were a lifeboat a rope the
ship's papers and the captain's
navigational equipment captain Briggs
had a habit of keeping very detailed and
thorough notes in his journal the last
entry had been made on November 25th it
mentioned bad weather but nothing more
nothing that would be enough to force
Briggs his wife and daughter and the
crew to leave Mary Celeste in such a
hurry the coordinates given put the ship
about 800 miles away from the coast had
she been unmanned and drifting aimlessly
for 400 miles over the past nine days
what on earth happened to the Mary
Celeste or more specifically to her crew
and passengers the crew of the de gracia
soon became prime suspects in the case
according to this first official theory
the men of digression got rid of
everyone on Mary Celeste made up a
barely believable story about finding
her abandoned and sailed her to the
shore for a salvage reward seems like a
reasonable theory I mean if I just so
happened to find a wallet that had been
reported stolen
I imagine the police would question me
first but after a thorough investigation
that theory didn't hold up although the
crew of the de Gracia never did get the
full payment for salvaging Mary Celeste
but hey at least they weren't being
blamed any more since then investigators
have been left with nothing but theories
all of them with certain facts
contradicting others and making a mess
of the whole thing so what's the first
thing that comes to your mind when you
imagine why a crew would abandon ship
probably a storm right especially
knowing that captain Briggs had
mentioned foul weather in his last
journal entry some other facts point to
such a possibility but it's still
unclear
for example the pump on Mary Celeste was
apparently malfunctioning and undergoing
some kind of maintenance when this bad
weather rolled in perhaps the captain
didn't think the ship would survive the
storm
given that it might easily flood with a
broken pump the only problem is that
there were no storms reported in that
area at that time when Mary Celeste was
found her lower area was under about
four feet of water but that wasn't too
scary for a ship her size everything
inside the ship was dry and undamaged
besides if there was bad weather do you
really think they'd switched their ship
with a slightly malfunctioning pump for
a tiny little lifeboat thinking they'd
have better chances at weathering the
storm captain Briggs was smarter than
that
one theory suggests that pirates could
have attacked the ship but that theory
doesn't hold since all the personal
belongings food and valuable cargo were
left untouched not to mention the course
Mary Celeste was on ran directly through
waters heavily guarded by the British
Navy no pirate would ever risk sailing
there just to attack a small Brigantine
what if the crew mutinied against their
captain Briggs was known to be pretty
strict with discipline not to mention
the only belongings they didn't find on
the ship were those of two of the crew
members had there been some horrific
scene did they take everyone out grab
their things jump in the lifeboat and
flee to avoid getting caught again it's
highly unlikely and pretty much
disproven first of all what chances do
two men have against six others also
there were no signs of a struggle or
fight when the ship was examined and
finally further investigations showed
that those two were German sailors that
had been tricked on their previous
journey and left with no belongings at
all they hadn't even brought anything
with them in the first place the final
and most probable theory comes down to
the nine alcohol barrels found empty on
the ship those nine barrels were the
only ones out of the total 1701
that weren't properly suitable for
transporting alcohol they were made from
a kind of porous timber that couldn't
stop alcohol from evaporating okay that
explains why they were empty but what
about the missing people well you see
when alcohol evaporates it creates a
really dangerous zone around the source
of the leakage by releasing highly
flammable fumes that can lead to an
explosion captain Briggs might have
noticed that some barrels were empty and
ordered everybody to get off the ship as
soon as possible before the hull
explodes this sense of emergency
explains the food and belongings being
left and I doubt the
captain had time to jot all this down in
his journal before evacuating everyone
to safety
so everyone probably rushed into the
lifeboat the captain likely grabbed his
navigational instruments and the ship's
papers in case she blew up and they
needed to continue their journey in the
lifeboat as for the long rope that was
missing they probably used it to tie the
lifeboat to Mary Celeste wait for as
long as possible for the flammable fumes
to wear out and then return to the ship
at some point the rope could have
snapped and set the lifeboat with ten
people on it adrift in the Atlantic with
no way of returning to the ship and
little chances of survival out in the
open ocean with no food or water and
still even this theory has its flaws why
was there no smell of alcohol on board
when Mary Celeste was found
if nine whole barrels had leaked
completely dry you'd think the crew of
guy gracia would have noticed it
immediately maybe they did and they just
assumed well the ship was carrying
alcohol hence the smell I guess we'll
never know and the story of Mary Celeste
shall remain a mystery so what do you
think happened to the Mary Celeste and
her crew let me know your theories down
in the comments if you learned something
new today then give this video a like
and share it with a friend but hey don't
go anywhere just yet we have over 2,000
cool videos for you to check out all you
have to do is pick the left or right
video click on it and enjoy stay on the
bright side of life